
Power Spectral Analysis (PSA)

An algorithm that estimates the strength of a time-domain signal in different frequency bands.


1 - Input Files :
	The PSA is performed on sampled time-domain signal.  Start by opening your PSG files (.edf, .eeg or .sts).  
	The .sig file is also needed for Stellate format.  The whole NATUS subject folder is also needed for the .eeg format.  
	Define the montage and channels for each open file you want to perform the PSA on.

2 - Annotations to exclude :
	Select events to exclude from the PSA (i.e. artefacts previously detected and saved on the accessory file).

3 - Preparatory Step :
Filtering : 
	Define the appropriate filtering to match your research analyses.
PSA data selection : 
	The PSA is performed per sleep stage.  You have to define the stages to include in the PSA.  
	There is also the possibility to run the PSA only on the signal included in the sleep cycles and to exclude NREM or REM periods.

4 - Spectral Settings :
	The PSA is performed through many short windows in order to estimate the spectral power.  The procedure is called Short Time Fourier Transform (STFT).
	Define the window length (s) used to perform each FFT (Fast Fourier Transform) and at which window steps (s) each FFT is performed.
	The frequency bin resolution (Hz) depends of the window length (s) used to perform each FFT.
		Frequency bin resolution : 1 / [fft windows length (s)]
		I.e. 1 / 5 s = 0.2 Hz or 1 / 4 s = 0.25 Hz

	It is common to average the power from a few frequency bins in order to estimate the spectral power in a frequency band.
	Define the width (Hz) of the frequency bands you are interested in. 
	Define also the last frequency to analyze (the maximum is half the sampling frequency (Hz) of the channels to analyze).

	For now : only the standard PSA is available. *** Add information about the Rythmic/arythmic PSA.

5 - Output File :
	The spectral power is computed per sleep stage.  Define how to average the spectral power across the recording.
	-Select "Total" to output the average through the whole recording.
	-Select "Distribution per hour" to output the average per real clock hour, from hour 1 to 9.  The start point is the sleep onset.
	-Select "Distribution per sleep cycle" to output the average per sleep cycle, from sleep cycle 1 to 9.  The start point is the sleep onset.

	The output file is a .tsv (tab separated values) file. Each line is specific to a subject, a channel and a frequency band. 
	Warning : the PSA data is added (appended) to the output file, the output file will be modified each time the PSA tool is run.